(metal music)
All right, let's talk about minmax
when we can use it with auto-fit and auto-fill.
I've opened up my minmax-START.
This is in the 13 - Using minmax() for Responsive Grids.
And for me this sort of combo
of using auto-fit and auto-fill as well as minmax,
it has actually replaced a lot of media queries
that I previously had written,
because it sort of is just responsive by nature.
We'll turn on the dev tools here. I'll make that black.
Let's take a look at this, this 150 pixels here.
What if it was 100 pixels?
We run into some issues here
where the content starts to spill out.
So we don't really want to have to
figure out how wide our columns should be.
They should just sort of flow as wide as they need to be.
So what we can do is replace that with a minmax.
And then what we can do is we can tell it two things.
I'll give you a dollar if you can guess what they are.
The minimum and the maximum that the track will be.
So in our case we'll say minimum 150 pixels.
That's as small as they can possibly go.
And a maximum, I like to do 1fr.
Meaning that at a max they will be
the entire width of the grid.
So give that a save now,
and watch what happens to these items as we get smaller.
So here we go. Getting smaller, getting smaller.
And you see that they start to wrap on to the next line
because at a certain point they just don't fit.
And they allow themselves to wrap.
And at a certain point they would just become
one entire stacked column of values,
rather than the four or the five that we had.
And as you get bigger you see
that it will start to add more.
So that's great because we don't have to explicitly tell it
how many columns we want.
It will just figure it out
given that we have the min and the max.
Now this is using auto-fill.
Kind of a neat thing.
If we change it to auto-fit,
this is probably what you'll be using more likely,
what it will do is it will then
not give us that extra space.
So let me go back to auto-fill.
I have four items, so it will just take up the first four
and continue to make them.
I'll leave them this big, so we have nine tracks here.
If I change that to auto-fit,
you see that it will just make
those four tracks that we actually needed
and stretch the items inside of those tracks to fit.
So that's really, really nice, because now watch it.
It will always look perfectly clean,
but as I run out of space
it will still wrap itself around as we need it.
So auto-fit and auto-fill, combined with minmax.
That's something we're gonna be using quite a bit
when we get into the real world examples.
Sort of in the same vein as minmax,
though not directly related,
is the fit-content function in CSS.
So let's just comment this out,
and let's make a bunch of columns that we have.
grid-template-column, and it's gtc.
I don't know why I've been trying
to type it manually all this type.
gtc tab will get you what you want.
And let's say 150px four times over.
One, two, three, four. Good.
That will give us four columns that are 150 pixels each.
However if I change the first one to auto,
what will happen is it will just take up
that remaining space that it has in here
after we've then done it.
Actually what's kind of neat is if you resize it,
you'll see that it will also get smaller
as we run out of room.
Now what we can do instead of using auto
is use the fit-content function.
Because sometimes you may be telling yourself,
"Mm. That's good, but it's a bit too big."
Especially if these were getting even smaller.
So we can replace that with fit-content,
and you can give it what's called a clamp value.
The max width, or a max height if it was a row,
that this thing should go to.
Let's say I want it to be auto,
but I don't want it to go more than, let's say 100px.
And then that will clamp it at 100 pixels wide,
and then leave that extra space just open to you.
So fit-content, I don't use that all that often,
but sometimes you run in to some edge case scenarios,
and just know that that might be a solution
to your sizing needs.
(metal music)